---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Keeping Track Of The Past
published: true
date: 2016-09-15
labels:
  - Configuration managment
  - git/GitHub
---

“Configuration management” is a central software engineering skill. Without effective configuration management, it would be almost impossible for teams to build large and complex software systems and maintain them over time.

Git is currently the most popular technology for configuration management, and GitHub is currently the most popular cloud-based software hosting platform.

- What are your thoughts on configuration management? Have you ever had a problem due to the lack of effective configuration management practices?

- Do you think GitHub is popular because of git? Or do you think git is popular because of GitHub?

---

When I was first learning programming, I had heard of git and GitHub, but was able to get by without thinking I really needed something like that. In later larger projects, working with teams of other people, though, using git/GitHub was a definite upgrade from the way I had been doing things before; I thought 'this is awesome, I should be using this for everything,' you can pull things down, break them in an isolated branch, and just was your hands of the mess you've made. Basically, git/GitHub helps better enable you to treat your project like a of box physical stuff that you and your team can sit around a table with and work on together. I think this is a much more natural way of thinking about working on code together and git/GitHub does a good job a letting you treat it that way.

Software configuration management (SCM) is the task of tracking and controlling changes in software. SCM includes revision control and the establishment of baselines.

SCM ensures that the current design and build state of the system is known, good, trusted; Importantly, it does not leave the code beholden to the implicit and unspoken knowledge of a particular development team. One of the main goals of SCM tools that I tend to make use of the most is  access to an accurate historical record of system state, which can be very useful and timesaving. Aside from project management and standardizing team interactions, having access to older versions of different components of a project allows you to do thing like check what has been changed in a new version from the previous, to look for reasons why your tests are no longer passing and even roll back to the previous working version fi this new one is flawed beyond repair (as opposed to having to manually rewrite the newer version to mirror the old).

<NOTE: git-GitHub or GitHub-git>
<see: https://www.wired.com/2015/03/github-conquered-google-microsoft-everyone-else/>

   




